Fix AppArmor documentation for total enable/disable of AppArmor (Fixes #105) (#113)
canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation: how-to/security/apparmor.md

  * To mitigate the drawbacks of above approaches, **local includes** were introduced, adding the ability to write arbitrary rules that not run into issues during upgrades that modify the packaged rule.
  * The files can be found in `/etc/apparmor.d/local/` and exist for the packages that are known to sometimes need slight tweaks for special setups.

## Disabling or Re-enabling AppArmor

> Starting with Ubuntu 24.04 and later, the AppArmor services are baked into the Ubuntu Kernel, and require special steps to fully disable or re-enable.

Reviewer: You and me know what you mean, but for others it might be "which are the *special* steps".
Maybe:

```suggestion
Starting with Ubuntu 24.04 and later, the AppArmor services are baked into the Ubuntu Kernel. While before you disable it by not loading the service, it now requires setting a module parameter on the kernel command line to fully disable or re-enable.
```

### Disable AppArmor

> > WARNING! Disabling AppArmor reduces the security of your system! You should only disable apparmor if you understand the security implications 

Reviewer: I like adding a warning banner - thanks

> of disabling the service!

To disable AppArmor, you must do the following:

> * Stop and disable the `apparmor.service` in SystemD to prevent AppArmor profiles from being loaded:

Reviewer: Due to AssertPathIsReadWrite=/sys/kernel/security/apparmor/.load
We actually could "only" document the module argument now.
That will avoid the service to be enabled/disables - less steps, less mistakes.

Also re-enabling it will be only one step again.
WDYT - should we just remove all about apparmor.service?

Reviewer: Because disabling it with a kernel parameter works in the old style as well.
There you could provide the parameter via a conf file, but since disabling security is nothing you'd want to make too trivial just and only documenting the kernel parameter might be better readable and works everywhere.

Author: If we don't need `apparmor.service` to be disabled manually then we can remove that bit and just use the unloading of the module.  Same for re-enabling, because then the service works as intended if the module is present or not.

Author: If we don't need `apparmor.service` to be disabled manually then we can remove that bit and just use the unloading of the module.  Same for re-enabling, because then the service works as intended if the module is present or not.

    ```
    sudo systemctl stop apparmor.service
    sudo systemctl disable apparmor.service
    ```

* Edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `apparmor=0` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX` in `/etc/default/grub`

* Run `sudo update-grub` to refresh the boot configuration

> * Reboot the system.

Reviewer: We should add a bit how one can see if it worked.
I got the output of aa-status and the service in that case.
I think it could be valuable to all to be sure what they did worked?

```
$ sudo aa-status
apparmor module is loaded.
apparmor filesystem is not mounted.

$ systemctl status apparmor
○ apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles
     Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/apparmor.service; enabled; preset: enabled)
     Active: inactive (dead)
  Condition: start condition unmet at Tue 2025-01-14 08:45:04 UTC; 1min 20s ago
             └─ ConditionSecurity=apparmor was not met
       Docs: man:apparmor(7)
             https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/wikis/home/

Jan 14 08:45:04 n systemd[1]: apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles was skipped because of an unmet condition check (ConditionSecurity=apparmor).
```

Author: Would it work to have a section titled "Checking AppArmor status" dedicated to this?

> ### Re-enable AppArmor

Reviewer: maybe we should mention how an enabled apparmor looks like
How about adding as example:

```
$ sudo aa-status
apparmor module is loaded.
119 profiles are loaded.
24 profiles are in enforce mode.
   /usr/bin/man
...
```

Author: see https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation/pull/113#discussion_r1915515239
